# Chapter 1: What is Javascript?

JavaScript is a programming language developed by Netscape in the 1990s. The language is somewhat related to Java and scripting, so it can be said that this language is a way of saying that everything that is developed in this programming language is somehow easier. JavaScript is specified in ECMAScript and is standardized by TC39 (Group of developers in charge of reviewing each new proposal and adapting it to the standard). To be clear, these terms don't define all the great things about Javascript, but they do help with the tools to properly specify and document it. 

Javascript can be perceived in many ways, such as procedural and functional object-oriented. When it comes to versions or new improvements, there is a limitation because JavaScript is not backwards compatible, on the contrary, if it is backwards compatible, it means that the new version of ECMAScript is different from the old version. They are not compatible with the new ones. The way you manage to make the new code compatible with the old code is by using a transpiler, either an external transpiler like Babel or an internal transpiler. Converts the new syntax to the equivalent syntax but of a newer version.
JavaScript works in such a way that it can be understood and executed by the machine it is intended to run on. Once the code is written, it is translated and packaged using WebPack, translated into an abstract syntax tree, and then the tree is structured and translated into a binary broker for the final step. Using a virtual machine that processes JavaScript.

JavaScript is a compiled language because it processes and validates the program before running it. ("in spirit, if not in practice, JS is a compiled language. And again, the reason that matters is, since JS is compiled, we are informed of static errors (such as malformed syntax) before our code is executed. That is a substantively different interaction model than we get with traditional “scripting” programs, and arguably more helpful!")

One of the advantages of JavaScript is that variables can be used without declaring them beforehand, but this points to several problems at runtime, why "use a string"? This set of keywords indicates that all code will be pre-checked against certain criteria, such as declaring variables, not repeating function names, etc.